I am Deborah Parks interviewing Mr. Herschel
Burgess for the History of College Station
Project at the Community Savings and Loan Branch
Office on March 16, 1983, 3 PM, Side 1.
OK, where were you born? I was born in Montague
County, Texas. February the 24th, 1907. I'm
sorry, 1905. I guess you didn't have to volunteer
that, but that's fine. Were your parents from that
same area? Yes. Yes, my father was a veteran in the
Spanish-American War. My mother was born there, I
suppose. My mother died when I was really young. I
never did know much about my mother's family. But
he was a veteran in the Spanish-American War.
Well, yes, he was a soldier in the
Spanish-American War. And what did he do for a
living? Farmer. He was a farmer. So therefore you
worked on the farm when you were younger? Yes, yes.
What type of things did you raise? Everything that
a farm in West Texas, agricultural products, feed
stuff, cotton, cattle, of course we had cattle,
ranch. Okay.
How much formal education did you have since you
worked on the farm? Were you able to go to high
school? Yes, I went to school in Little Town of
Mundy, Texas, Knox County. In 1923, I came to Allen
Academy here in Bryan, and that's where I got my
more formal education, here in Bryan. Allen
Academy at that time was a military high school.
Oh, I see. Why did you decide to go to Allen Academy?
Well, that's a long story. It involved athletics.
I lived with the sweetest old aunt in the world in
the little town of Mundy.
And she really loved me and took care of me. I got
interested in track and athletics.
I won the county meet for the little high school on
Monday, and they sent me to the district meet in
Vernon, Texas. And I won there, and they made a lot
of money to send me to Austin for the high school
track meet. I went on my own. They made enough money
to pay me away, but I didn't have a coach.
Oh, OK. All right.
The preliminaries of the track meet is on Friday in
Austin. Still are, I suppose. That day I had a
pretty good day in running in the dashes. And then
on Saturday, which is a final, a gentleman by the
name of Charlie Hudson got a hold of me and took me
over to his little gang. And he was from Bryan,
Texas. He had been the athletic coach at Bryan. And
that summer, he had already contracted. This was
in May of 1923. He had contracted to go to Allen
Academy as an athletic coach. And he made friends
with me and took me over and gave me some
instructions. And I had a pretty good day. And when
I went about my business, I worked through the
harvest fields that summer of 23. And Mr. Hudson
got in touch with me by mail. He had my name and
address and told me he had a job that would pay my
expenses if I'd come to Allen Academy. That would
be the fall of 23. And with that, I accepted that
proposition and came to Allen Academy. And so you
were an athlete then? Yes. Did you attend more
state championship? I mean, did you win any type
of? Well, we... We had a fine track team here at
Allen Academy. And that spring, Allen had a track
team that was good enough that they qualified for
track meet, for some meet events in Chicago for the
National Scholastic Meet. And they sent me up
there. Oh, really? Chicago? Yes, I won the second
and 220-yard dash, I believe it was, and third, the
100-yard dash. Well, that's wonderful.
And on the way from Chicago, that would be in the
spring of 24, wouldn't it? That would be the spring
of 24. And I worked in farming one thing or another
during the summer of 24, then came back to Allen
Academy that year. We had a fine athletic team,
football. I had never played football until I came
to Allen Academy. And I was invited to come out for
the team, and did, and made the team. We had a good
team in 24. We, among other teams that we played,
was a Texas A&M freshman. Oh, you did? You played
the freshman? I had a pretty good day against the
freshman, Mr. Bible, who was head coach at Texas
A&M at that time, Mr. D-X Bible. shook hands with
him and I met him and kept in contact with him. And
then when school, when I graduated Allen Academy
in 1925, I worked again in the harvest fields as I
generally did in summers and then came to Allen
Academy, I mean to Texas A&M in the fall of 25 as a
freshman. Were you on some kind of football team?
Yes. Oh, that's wonderful. Well, scholarships
such as we had those days, it doesn't like to wear
that, but I had a little old job that helped me pay my
expenses and pay the tuition and all. So the
freshmen didn't participate in varsity sports at
that time. We just played as freshmen. Then, of
course, in my sophomore year, which would be this
fall of 26, then I was on the varsity team from then
on until I graduated. What was your degree? What
degree did you get? A business degree. Is that when
you got interested in real estate then? Or how did
you get interested? All right. My athletics, I'm
indebted very largely to athletics scholarship
for my education, whatever I got, because I went
out for track and football. We had some fine teams
when I was here. I was also taken into the Athletic
Hall of Fame a few years ago. Well, that's
wonderful. Well, it is for me. That's a great
honor, great achievement for me.
Now, you asked about real estate. I graduated from
A&M in 1929, which was a bad time. Depression was
coming on, and there wasn't very many of us that got
jobs. I was able to get a job
with the United States Agriculture Department.
You've heard of the Mediterranean fruit fly? Yes.
Well, that year it was tacking. the Rio Grande
Valley from Mexico, and the government was
hiring, but I had some courses in, and I can speak
Spanish, and so I was out of 15 or 20 boys in our class
that got a job that year. I got a job in Brownsville,
and
I stayed down there about a year or so, and as young
men will do, I got to courting. I was going to ask you
about that. And of course courting will lead to
marriage. And I married in October of 1930.
Married that President Walton's daughter. Oh,
you did? And her name is? Ethel, E-T-H-Y-L. Ethel.
Walton. And then I moved here.
And got into real estate activity on the south side
of the NM campus. Bought a tract of land down there,
75, 8 acres. And cut it into lots and blocks. Sold it
as residential property. That was before the city
was organized. And that was quite a problem, quite
a job to do all of that. I was going to ask you about
how How did you handle these type of things before?
Well, I'd had courses leading up to that helpful
thing. I had economics. I wasn't called
agricultural engineering then, but it was a
business course. And I took economics and some
surveying and a course in banking and one thing or
another. And that all helped me. I, of course,
relied on friends more than anything else. For
some reason or other, the Lord has given me an
abundance of friends. Some of them had money, and
they helped me out buying this property. There
wasn't any city here, and it made it very tough. I
had to put in on streets and all the utilities.
That's what I was wondering. Yeah. So... Your
Oakwood Realty Company? Yes. When you bought that
75 acres? That's right. I formed a corporation.
And what year was that? That was 1933. My 32, I
guess, 1932, formed that corporation. And
subdivided that tract of land. It was on the south
side of the A&M campus. Then undertook to... Got
some utilities in there. And how do you do that?
Well, take water, for example.
Wasn't any kind of a public water system here. And I
was able to talk to the board directors of A&M. Let
me tie on to the A&M system for water. And of course,
I had to pay for all that, the pipe and get it under
the ground. install all the supplies for it. So you
built from the south side to the A&M campus border?
Well, I joined the A&M campus on the south side, but
I had to lay the water lines from their water supply
system, their wells, to the land, and then that's
across the south side of the campus now. Oh, where
you see the kids playing ball out there? Oh, yeah.
It's on campus now then? Where you joined in, where
they're out there playing ball? Well, that's A&M
property, my property. You know Jersey Street?
Right. Well, Jersey was a dirt road at that time.
And then my property was from Jersey on down that
way. So you had to personally lay the water lines
and then A&M? And pay for the pipe and the water and
the labor and so forth. Same for the sewer system.
We had to put in the sewer system.
Each residence, they're required to have a septic
tank. I think you probably know what a septic tank
is. A septic tank's a a whole rectangular piece as
big as this table here, but even deeper. And the
effluent from the sewer lines and the commodes and
the drains in the house went into the septic tank.
And that was disposed of. Then we had a line to it
that carried the effluent out from the septic tank
into a purifying plant. We had, way down there,
about half a mile away, had put that in as a
purification system. So the sewer didn't go to
A&M. No. You put in another plant yourself. We put
in another stewarded disposal system
altogether. And then, of course, we got
electricity from the university at the time. And
you had to put in the lines? Had to put in the poles,
the lines, and all of that. Well, did they agree to
do that if you had so many residents living, you
know, getting so many residents? Or did it help to,
I guess you knew, President
Walton, your father-in-law, did that help? Well,
it probably did. I didn't deal with him. I dealt
with the board. They had to prove everything they
did.
The gas, of course, we got the gas supply from the
Lone Star Gas Company, which is still here, of
course. And we had to put in the pipe for that. Very
expensive undertaking at that time. And still is,
of course, more expensive than ever. But it's very
most difficult to not have any money to operate
with. I'd sell a lot and use that to do something
else. Oh, I see. But the board of AM didn't say that
we'll allow you to hook up to our utility, say you
have 10 residents in your area? No. No, they didn't
make any restrictions? No, they didn't. They had
to just do it by the residents or by whatever. Okay.
Just whatever. Now I did try to develop the
property in contiguous joints, contiguous
parts, so that I have the utilities there and it's
moving 75, 80 feet to another house and so on. They
were, the people before this time, the faculty,
basically lived on campus, didn't they? Yes,
there's very few that lived off the campus, very
few. And that was my proposition, to give them an
opportunity to have their own home off the campus.
They couldn't own a home on the campus. The
university owned all the residence property on
the campus, on the A&M property. They couldn't own
it. And what they rented it. They had certain
houses available for certain professors or
employees. dean's houses and all of that you know
they had dean's row where the deans lived oh they
they had a certain section for the dean or a certain
house that's where the president's house is now
you know see there's there's homes all through
there then most of them are moving away you don't
see any homes in there well were the board of
directors interested in getting people to move
off was it oh yes they helped them they'd be
whatever assistance they could to get them to
provide their own homes. They encouraged
ownership of homes. And that, well, in about 1933,
President Roosevelt was elected. The impression
was awful enough. And he created what they called
the Federal Housing Administration. And the
purpose of that Federal Housing Administration
was to help people own their homes. And I took
advantage of that system as best I could. I had a
friend who was a
chief officer in the Houston District, and he
helped me get lined up with the Federal Housing
Administration and some of that Folkwood
addition that I had developed down at the Oakwood
Realty Company that we were talking about. It was
the first FHA-approved area between Houston and
Dallas, and this man helped me He helped me with
that. I can't say his first name.
H-U-M-P-H-R-I-E-S.
About the 26th class, the 27th class of A&M.
No, they didn't have any money to lend. I get that. I
had loan connections, mostly through the
American General Insurance Company in Houston.
they would make a loan for a house for proper anyone
if the FHA would guarantee the loan to be paid. So
for example, if you wanted to buy a house, and it was
a very modern scheme up to date, up to that time, you
could build a very fine house for $10,000,
$20,000, the best in the area.
The lenders at that time were insurance companies
and mortgage companies. They'd loan about half
that. If you loaned $12,000, they'd lend about
$6,000. And the rules of repayment was 10 years.
You had to pay it back monthly in a 10-year period.
The FHA come along. Instead of loaning 50%, they'd
loan 90%. So your $10,000 house, you'd need $1,000
to pay down. Generally, if you had the lot, that was
enough. Then they made the payments up to 20 years,
instead of 10 years. And the interest rate was 5%,
5.5% instead of 8.5% or 9%. And that
revolutionized the home building. And I took
advantage of that. And it made it easy for the
profs, for the professors, and other A&M
employees to buy their own homes. And they just
feel that's about a little dish of nut down there
pretty quick. Well, so really, you gained a great
advantage by being aware of the needs on campus and
what the government was providing? That's right.
And availability of money at the very best
possible rates for the people. And it worked fine.
And we just had things going all the time. And then
about 1938, I sold out that, developed it, and then
bought a piece of land here on the north side of the
campus. And we called that addition North
Oakwood. The other was just plain Oakwood. But on
the north end, we called it North Oakwood. And I
went in and developed that on the same idea. It
wasn't in the city either, either Bryan or
College. It's in the city of Bryan now. Oh, it is?
Yeah. To get you located maybe where it is, do you
know where it is? That
was my first business. That was my first little
business development. What do you call it? A mall?
That was my first mall. I started that in 1938. And
does it have, is it Brookside that runs through?
Yeah, that's my street. I named that street.
Brookside and all those other streets in there.
Brookside Drive. And so in 38, that didn't belong
to Brian. No, Brian's city limits didn't come out
that far. I had to do it, poor boy, if you will, just
like I did the air on the south side. I had to put in my
own streets, dug my own water well, couldn't get it
from A&M. I had to dig my own water well and had an
elevated tank, furnish water to the residents to
begin with. And that moved real fast. real fast
farmland under the same FHA operation as they're
doing on the south side. People that you might know
live, lots and lots of A&M people. Live in that
area? Live there now and did then. They were
primarily the ones that bought the property and
built lovely homes. It's very close to the
university. Yeah, that's right. What did College
Station, I guess, Right before it was
incorporated, what did it look like? Was it
basically open prairie? Well, except on the
campuses, just simply rural country, just open
farmland. On the east gate here, you know, that was
all farmland. It was in cotton, and there wasn't
any residences. Texas Avenue was a dirt road.
Jersey Street was a dirt and gravel road, which
wasn't near as wide as it is now, just a country
lane, that's all it was. And at the north gate where
the post office is over there, you know, that post
office was placed there about, oh what, 1935 or 36.
You know where the post office is. And there's two
or three stores across the street from it. The
grocery store, Been there a good many years,
called Luke and Charlie. And there was a drug store
there. Lipscomb? Well, not at first. Lipscomb
wasn't there.
Casey and Sparks had a little pharmacy there,
really. A fellow named Burtis, B-U-R-T-I-S, not
money, ran the store. And then Lipscomb did come
there, and they built his father-in-law, who was
Dr. E.J. Kyle. I'm sorry. Dr. E.J. wasn't Dr.
Lipscomb's father-in-law. They were related.
They were related? No, they're not related at all.
But that Dean Kyle was the agriculture dean at A&M,
and he built this two-story building there. And
Lipscomb did operate a drugstore out of that
two-story building. Mrs. Lipscomb still lives on
the south side in my addition that I've developed
down there in Oakwood Addition. I sold them a home
down there. It was about 35, 36, somewhere back in
there. Well, a lot of residents, it seems like a lot
of residents still live there. Oh, yes. It's full
of some of the old-timers. That's good. They were
happy with it. Yeah. We used to have a cage there.
Lee Street was a, I built the first house on Lee
Street, and we didn't even have Lee Street in
there. We had it designated, but it hadn't been
graded out. How did you provide for the streets?
You had to build those too? Yes, I had to put them in.
Contract with some company to lay? Yes, I had to
contract with a street building company. They
were very poor. What were they made of? They had to
grade it up, just had the street graded up. And then
made them all surface by gravel. They weren't
paved, I don't suppose, until probably after
World War II. I'm not quite sure about that. And the
city did that then? Yes. It was incorporated then.
Yes, the city was organized about 1938, wasn't it?
38, right. And
then the city then bought the utility lines from me
and we took over the streets and maintained them
and paid them. But originally you as the developer
had to provide for that. That's right. We had a
little taxing system that we charged so much per
lot really is on a front-foot basis. If you had a
50-foot lot, you'd pay taxes on the basis of 50
foot. If I had a 100-foot lot, then I'd pay on the 100
feet and so forth. How were they kept up? Just had a
private man live down around Wellborn. That
included the sewage pickup or garbage pickup.
There's always a little comical comedy attached
to that. This old black man had a wagon and mules,
and it was his job to pick up the garbage. We paid him
out of this tax money. I handled that, but I
collected the taxes. They had a taxing system, and
I paid for the garbage pickup and upkeep of the
streets. They'd have to be graded every so often.
And I paid for that out of this tax money. This old
Negro, his name was Rum, R-U-M. He had this team and
a mule and a wagon. It had about three or four kids.
And they were kids, but I say the oldest, one was,
say, 11, 12, then on down. And they'd always start
in the wagon. Another little white kid would
follow them around in that wagon. And he had two or
three dogs that he lashed onto the wagon with a
string or something that they just It's kind of a
comedy to see him coming. To see him going down the
street to pick up the trash? Yeah, the kids
following, hollering, carrying on. And he did
that for several years. Well, so the city is
organizing. The city took over. Oh, that's
wonderful. That's the type of thing. Well, it's
real country. It's real backward country doing
it. But we had about all we could do in those days.
But that's the type of thing that people like me do
not, you know. Don't realize it now. Just don't
realize. In fact, it was a pretty hard time. There
was no fire level. We had a fire on Lee Street.
An architectural prop lived in the house. I
believe his name was Jack Finney. His house caught
fire. There's a dry lake, which you happen to know
on the south side of the company.
It's called Bryson Pond or Bryson Park now. Was it
full of water then? Yes, it was full of water. Oh,
okay. Yeah, I know where that is. And two or three
fires we had, the water was pumped from that pond,
from that lake, and the hose was stretched out to
wherever the fire was. And it wasn't much of a fire
system, but that's all they had. Oh, you couldn't
depend on the university? No, not at that time. Not
at that time. So the only thing you had was just the
pond? That's the pond. That's the fire water we
had. We didn't have any lines big enough to carry
the water. Six-inch lines. The fire plug didn't
have any fire plug to attach it to. So it was pretty
rugged living. But so the Oakwood started about
like 1932, you would say? No. Let's say, I think we
got the corporation in 1933. Let's say 1934.
Oakwood really started developing that area in
there. And this is the way they had to live until you
incorporated the city. That's right. My house is
known as 112 Lee Avenue, and it was the first house
on Lee Street. That's 1935 when we built it. But it
wasn't the first house on the south side, was it?
Oh, no, no. Because you have College Park. No, the
College Park now. College Park was developed,
started about 1923 or 24. Of course, I had nothing
to do with that. That was some college professors
owned, organized what they called College Park
Development Company. Dr. Clark? Yes. Who? Dr.
Clark. Dr. F.B. Clark. He was one of the
organizers. And Dr. Burchard was a chemistry
trial. He was in it. And about three or four others
whose names are kind of left now. I can't see the
names anymore. But there's five of them, as I
remember. And they developed what is known as
College Park Edition. About 1923. It started
about 1923 or 1924.
Well, later on, College Park and Oakwood have a
joint association. What year was that? Yes. I
bought the unsold lots in College Park, Oakwood
Realty Company did, in 1936, let's say. They had,
oh, maybe 100, 150 unsold lots, undeveloped lots,
and I bought them. and then proceeded to develop
them and sell them out as Oakwood Realty Company.
We connected streets. It would be interesting,
very interesting, if we had an abstract of College
Park. The map's entirely different now from what
it was then. They had properties laid out for
colored people, blacks. Oh, really? Yeah. You
know where Fairview Street is? Do you? Fairview
Street ran off from the campus southward and came
to a square like that. Here's a street here. And
let's see.
This is Fairview. This is what's now is
Jersey Street. Fairview Street ran down here and
ran into a little square like that. This was
designated as a Negro church. Was it a church
actually there? Yeah, it was actually there. To go
around that you'd have to come down the street and
go down like that.
This is the church and when I bought the lots I
undertook to get rid of that sort of situation
because fire trucks couldn't get down through
there. They hadn't even thought of that. And we
changed that around, and there was Negro people
living along here. And that was designated for
them when they laid out College Park? That's
right. Very interesting. It is interesting. Did
you have that type of sectioning in Oakwood? No.
No. No, we didn't have that in Oakwood. We didn't
even... There's been many additions here in the
South, all through the South, and certainly in
Texas. In Brazos County, niggers were prohibited
from buying property, and that's been outlawed
now. Right. Yeah. And FHA, Federal Housing
Administration, had a lot to do with it. If you...
What do you call it? What word am I trying to say?
Discriminate? That word? Discriminate?
Discriminate. That's the word. If you
discriminate against anybody for race or color or
religion, it was a violation of law. You couldn't
get any money to build a house through FHA. So I
never did get in there. But anyway, when I bought
that, I took all this out. Got these people that
lived here. And... traded with them, traded
property that, do you know where the Lincoln
School is down on the south side? That's where they
went. That was the Negro property. And most of them
came from this little area right there. So when you
bought it, they moved from this area to Lincoln?
When you bought the rest of College Park, the Negro
families living here moved to Lincoln? Yes, I gave
them property down there for property here. And
then, like, you went ahead and just... We just took
this out. We just took that and straightened it on
out and made it a through street and made these
residential lots. Oh, that's very interesting.
Yes, it'd be interesting for you to develop, and
you must do it if you...
I don't know what extent for your writing the
school
thing might not require it, but in a book it'd be
interesting. Because certain people couldn't
associate with Negroes. When you bought a lot from
Dr. Clark and those patients over there,
if a white and a dark and a black person associated,
they got married. They automatically gave title.
They lost the title to their property. I don't know
that that ever came. I don't think it stood up in any
kind of law. But that was what was in those
abstracts when I bought the clock. Of course, I
immediately took it out. And
they weren't even permitted to associate
together as dates, for example. And certain
intermarriages were absolutely prohibited. I
can imagine. I mean, you have a certain sense of
that today, but what is that, 50 years ago would be
even more. Yeah, 60, 70 years ago, maybe. And you
know a lot of those people from the North, too, that
made those sort of rules. I know. Even though they
were fighting for... For freedom of the slave
people. I had a question. I ran across some
information. They said, I guess, area further
south was owned by the Federal Land Bank of
Houston. Does that ring a bell? I had no knowledge
of the Federal... Well, I'm sure the Federal Land
Bank owned property throughout the county. The
Federal Land Bank didn't really own land to
develop or to farm. It made loans if you had a farm
and you needed some equipment. Or maybe the whole
farm. You might borrow money from the federal land
bank to buy the farm, or to buy farm machinery or
equipment. And of course, sometimes they had
defaults where people failed to pay and they had to
seize the land. But they'd seize it and then
repossess it, we say. That's a term we use,
repossess. And then resend it to somebody else.
But I never knew of any federal... land bank
federal farm blown down in that area. Well, it was
in a newspaper and it made reference to the federal
land bank and then the Whitesell estate. Does that
ring a bell? What? The Whitesell,
W-E-I-N-Z-E-T-L estate. No, I don't know
anything about that. Okay, that's fine.
You made me to make remarks. Well, I was just
wondering what were some of the factors that
brought about the incorporation of . Well, the
principal factor was for the citizens to obtain
the services that you can get from city
organizations, such as police, for example, had
no pleas, and the utilities, and maintenance of
the utility streets. other assets of the city
office. And it was necessary to have some sort of an
organization to control. We're just doing
everything, you know. Developers such as
yourself. Yeah, well, developers, yeah, such as
me and others. And they had no laws. Might only
build a barn right out in the middle of somebody's
yard, you know. They had no control. There's
plenty of urgent need for a city organization. And
I urged that the best I could as a youngster. I never
took any action in any of the city offices or city
elections
when I developed what we call West Park Edition
over on next to the railroad over there. You know,
on the south side of the A&M campus, another little
mall down there that I put in. The south side? South
side. South side shopping center there. That's
mine. We didn't call them malls in those days. We
just called them shopping centers. And the city
was, I bought that property. What day did I buy that
property?
Oh, I must have been 38. And
the city was getting organized. And they were
going to have a zoning ordinance, zoning
regulation. That was a little unusual in this area
of Texas. I'm sure in the bigger cities, zoning was
common. Well, I had bought that tract of land there
where this shopping center is, Southside
Shopping Center. Oh, there's 60, 70 acres back in
there. And it belonged to a Czech family. Came from
the old country.
They're very, very poor people. Mrs. Hardricka?
No, that's another part. I know the Hardrickas.
It wasn't Schwartz. Schwartz is a family I bought
the Oakwood property from. I can't say it. But
anyway, this widow lived there about where, let me
see. there on the corner where that two-story
building, I put that building there. He had a
little check in the house there. There wasn't
anything across the street on that A&M property,
just blank. She had one cow and some chickens. Went
around barefooted all the time. Very poor. And I
bought that property from them. And I paid what I
thought was a big price for the property then,
about $150 an acre. But I thought the best chance of
coming out on it was to Long Jersey Street there to
make a little business center out of that. And I
drew up a plan of the area, lots of blocks and so
forth. And then across the front, Long Jersey
Street there, designated as a commercial area.
The City of College Station was getting underway.
And they appointed a zoning committee. Again, I
can't think of any gentleman's name.
And I had an opportunity to go on a hunting trip down
in old Mexico. And of course, my people knew about
my plans, the city people and all. But while I was
gone about two weeks, the zoning committee met and
zoomed that along there. as residential
property. Well, that was ruining me because I
couldn't get any money from residential property
because I was commercial. So, of course, I got a
hold of the lawyer. Now, the city hadn't formally
yet organized. There wasn't anything they could
do. They had to post certain signs for so long a
time, say 30 days or 60 or whatever it was. And so my
lawyer said, well, you just go ahead. And I didn't
have any intent to build it. The thing didn't have
any money to build it with. The thing in the world.
But he said, well, put some stuff out there. Haul
some dirt or land or wood or brick or something. I
said, you're going to start. Well, I did. And then
the zoning commission talked to people who lived
down there then over about 50, 60 to sign a petition
prohibiting me from developing that and the
business property. Well, that got to be a joke,
too, because I wanted to sign the petition myself
against my own building. Of course, they knew
that, and they wouldn't let me sign it. So I just got
me a petition, and one of them got the same people
who signed mine asking for it as to sign it against
it. And we went ahead and put the buildings there,
that two-story building. I had a grocery store
there for a good many years, and it worked fine. It
worked fine. I always remembered the grocery
part. That was in 1941 when it began to get finished
up. And I was working down there on one Sunday,
decorating for Christmas, putting some greenery
across the front of it, you know. Had a radio
upstairs blaring around, and it called a halt to
the music or whatever. And it announced it. the
Japanese at Mount Pearl Harbor. Oh no. And so I had a
commission in the Army as an A&M graduate. I knew I
was going to have to go. Excuse me.